content/english/net/geometry-and-hierarchy/_index.md, before:

---
title: Geometry and Hierarchy
linktitle: Geometry and Hierarchy
second_title: Aspose.3D .NET API
description: 
type: docs
weight: 25
url: /net/geometry-and-hierarchy/
---

## Geometry and Hierarchy Tutorials
### [Applying PBR Material to Box in 3D Scenes](./apply-pbr-material-to-box/)
### [Concatenating Quaternions in 3D Scenes](./concatenate-quaternions/)
### [Creating Cube Scenes in 3D](./create-cube-scenes/)
### [Exposing Geometric Transformation in 3D Scenes](./expose-geometric-transformation/)
### [Applying Material to Cube in 3D Scenes](./material-to-cube/)
### [Working with Mesh Geometry Data in 3D Scenes](./mesh-geometry-data/)
### [Understanding Node Hierarchy in 3D Scenes](./node-hierarchy/)
### [Setting Up Normals on Cube in 3D Scenes](./setup-normals-cube/)
### [Setting Up UV on Cube in 3D Scenes](./setup-uv-cube/)
### [Transforming Node by Euler Angles in 3D Scenes](./transformation-node-euler-angles/)
### [Transforming Node by Quaternion in 3D Scenes](./transformation-node-quaternion/)
### [Transforming Node by Transformation Matrix in 3D Scenes](./transformation-node-matrix/)
### [Triangulating Mesh in 3D Scenes](./triangulate-mesh/)

Commit message:

Updated geometry and hierarchy examples

content/english/net/geometry-and-hierarchy/_index.md, after:

---
title: Geometry and Hierarchy
linktitle: Geometry and Hierarchy
second_title: Aspose.3D .NET API
description: 
type: docs
weight: 25
url: /net/geometry-and-hierarchy/
---

## Geometry and Hierarchy Tutorials
### [Applying PBR Material to Box in 3D Scenes](./apply-pbr-material-to-box/)
Explore the world of 3D graphics with Aspose.3D for .NET. Create immersive scenes effortlessly using Physically Based Rendering materials.
### [Concatenating Quaternions in 3D Scenes](./concatenate-quaternions/)
Explore the power of quaternion manipulation in 3D scenes with Aspose.3D for .NET. Learn to concatenate quaternions step by step for immersive transformations.
### [Creating Cube Scenes in 3D](./create-cube-scenes/)
Craft stunning 3D cube scenes effortlessly with Aspose.3D for .NET. Download the library, follow our step-by-step guide, and unleash.
### [Exposing Geometric Transformation in 3D Scenes](./expose-geometric-transformation
Explore the limitless possibilities of 3D graphics in .NET with Aspose.3D. Uncover geometric transformations effortlessly.
### [Applying Material to Cube in 3D Scenes](./material-to-cube/)
Explore Aspose.3D for .NET, your gateway to seamless 3D graphics manipulation. Apply materials effortlessly, enhance realism, and elevate your projects.
### [Working with Mesh Geometry Data in 3D Scenes](./mesh-geometry-data/)
Master the art of 3D graphics programming with Aspose.3D for .NET. Create, manipulate, and save stunning 3D scenes effortlessly.
### [Understanding Node Hierarchy in 3D Scenes](./node-hierarchy/)
Unlock the power of Aspose.3D for .NET! Dive into node hierarchy manipulation with this step-by-step guide. Create stunning 3D scenes effortlessly.
### [Setting Up Normals on Cube in 3D Scenes](./setup-normals-cube/)
Learn to set up normals on a 3D cube using Aspose.3D for .NET. Enhance your 3D modeling skills with this step-by-step guide.
### [Setting Up UV on Cube in 3D Scenes](./setup-uv-cube/)
Learn to set up UV mapping on a 3D cube using Aspose.3D for .NET. Create visually stunning scenes with precise texture mapping.
### [Transforming Node by Euler Angles in 3D Scenes](./transformation-node-euler-angles/)
Learn to transform 3D nodes effortlessly with Aspose.3D for .NET. Follow our step-by-step guide for stunning results in your projects.
### [Transforming Node by Quaternion in 3D Scenes](./transformation-node-quaternion/)
Learn to transform 3D nodes with quaternions using Aspose.3D for .NET. Step-by-step guide for beginners.
### [Transforming Node by Transformation Matrix in 3D Scenes](./transformation-node-matrix/)
Transform nodes effortlessly in 3D scenes using Aspose.3D for .NET. Learn step-by-step node transformations with tutorial.
### [Triangulating Mesh in 3D Scenes](./triangulate-mesh/)
Explore the power of Aspose.3D for .NET in this step-by-step guide. Learn how to effortlessly triangulate 3D meshes for enhanced modeling.
